The first step of influencer marketing is finding influencers who would have
guessed.
So, I'm going to teach you guys how to do that.
Before we start hunting down influencers that can promote our apps, it's very
important
to know what type of influencer you are looking for.
The best way to do this is to look at the core demographic of your product and
then figure
out where they hang out online.
For example, Kalei, a calorie tracking app.
Who's our core demographic?
People who work out, people who go to the gym, where do people who go to the
gym hang
out?
What influencers online do they watch?
And when I say hang out, I mean hang out online.
What content are they consuming every day?
Fitness influencers, people that show how to do workouts, people that show
their gym
routines going to the gym.
So, we knew, okay, these are the influencers we want talking about Kalei, our
product.
You have to do the same thing, reverse engineer, this for your own app.
It's harder for some apps than others.
For Kalei, it's pretty straightforward, calorie tracking, working out, those
are hand in hand,
so workout influencers.
For an app like Quitter, for example, which we showed some videos on, it's
harder to find
influencers.
There are a few actually, but there are much fewer porn influencers, like influ
encers that
talk about porn prevention, then there are influencers that talk about working
out because
it's a much more sensitive topic, much more to do.
And so what Quitter did is they saw, okay, men between the ages of 13 to 18,
more than
50% of them have a porn addiction.
And so if we go after influencers, that target, that where their audience is
this demographic
is mostly made up of young men, then Quitter should be pretty applicable to
most of the
audience.
And that actually worked out.
We could see with Jeremiah Jones, that video, that one super viral made them
over 100K in
just 48 hours.
It's because his audience is mostly young men.
And so that worked really well.
You have to do the same thing for your app, figure out where your core audience
is and
then which influencers they watch.
If it's some kind of food app or your recipe app, then it's probably chef influ
encers that
they're watching how to prepare different dishes.
You have to figure it out.
Once you have, and this might take experimentation, honestly, you might not get
it right the first
time.
And once you start, you'll start very broad, but then you'll eventually, sorry,
you'll
start very niche down, you'll start as niche as possible to the core, to the
most core
demographic that you can.
And then you usually expand.
So with Cal AI, we started with the hardest core, fitness influencers.
And at this point, we're working with anyone.
We're working with Piper Raquel, who's a girl that has a big audience of
younger girls
under her, mostly teenage girls.
And she is, she promotes all kinds of things, it's mostly just relatable, funny
content about
being a girl.
And so it was unclear in the beginning, is this going to convert well for Cal
AI?
But it did convert well.
And we hypothesize that is because most of our audience is young girls and
teenage girls
are often insecure about their bodies and therefore they want to count their
calories.
So Cal AI actually worked really well.
This wasn't an obvious thing in the beginning, but now she's one of our most
profitable influencers.
So it may not be, the influencers that work best for you may not be the most
obvious and
may take a bunch of experimentation.
Once you find the influencer archetype you're targeting, we have to source them
.
There are many platforms and agencies that claim to do this, but for my
experience, they
all fucking suck.
They all suck.
And I just use TikTok and Instagram by themselves to find my influencers.
I turn the for you pages into lead generation engines.
So let's see how we're going to do that.
So the for you page method, you want to create a fresh TikTok account and then
it's basically
just interacting with videos that are in your niche.
So let's go to TikTok.
If I'm trying to find fitness influencers, I'll look up something like men
workouts.
Men workouts, Jim.
Okay.
Weird that no results are found.
There definitely are videos, the search algorithms for.
So we're here on TikTok and now I'm going to look out, look up, men workout.
And here we'll get all kinds of different influencer men showing how to do
workouts.
So what you'll want to do is just go through and like bookmark, comment, follow
the influencers.
I did it because it's just demonstration purposes.
But this guy, let's see 355,000 followers and if you do this on enough videos,
if you
just scroll through and you start liking, commenting, engaging with a bunch of
videos
in your niche, you will eventually get your for you page to only be these early
on when
you first create a brand new TikTok account, TikTok won't know what you like.
So it will just show you random content.
So you want to start by searching for something so you could also search
hashtag fitness.
And here are a ton of more creators.
So you'll want to go through, like all of these videos, comment, whatever.
Eventually, it will turn into your for you page being all your niche and you
want to
keep going.
Keep scrolling through liking videos, bookmarking, this is positive
reinforcement to the algorithm
that it's showing you the right content.
And at a certain point, you will only get content for of influencers in your
niche that
you want.
It's a lead generation engine where as you just need to scroll and then
everyone's a
everyone's an influencer.
Some aren't good influencers that you want to work with because maybe they're
too small.
Maybe the reviews aren't consistent, but they're all going to be in your niche
and you can
work with them.
Okay.
So that is really like the search method, the feel you could also you can't do
this on
a computer.
You have to do this on your phone on the app.
So it's better to do it there.
But you can after you search, you could sort by like count and the last three
months posted
in the last three months to make sure that the creators you're actually you're
actually
liking videos are are more relevant.
So Instagram, it's basically the same thing.
You could also just curate your for you page to be all influencers.
But there is an additional feature on Instagram called the related accounts
method.
Basically, if you go on Instagram and you look up some fitness trader.
So finished creator, I know, is Jeremiah Jones.
After you follow that creator, boom, I actually feel bad.
I wasn't following him before.
There is a drop.
Okay.
Here it goes.
There is the suggested for you.
And this suggested for you is usually all also similar creators.
So Sam Solock, huge fitness influencer, boom, David Goggins, huge fitness influ
encer, William
Scott, huge fitness influencer, Thomas Lee fit, finish influencer, and it just
keeps coming.
So this is also another way to just find more influencers.
So the first way is like, okay, you get your for you curate your for you page
to just give
you influencers, and then the second way is to look at the suggested for you.
Find an account, boom, follow them, and then you get a bunch of suggested for
you.
You go down the rabbit hole and you keep getting all of these influencers, you
keep hitting
them in their DMs, but we're going to get into that in the next section.
So that is generally the best way to find influencers.
The next section, we'll get into how to reach out to them.